---
layout: post
title: "The why behind my goodbyes: Honest reasons behind my career changes"
categories: [professional, career, personal]
---

# Introduction
Goodbyes are never easy, especially for someone like me who forms deep emotional connections with the company, the product, and, most importantly, the people I work with. Perhaps it’s because I’ve always been fortunate to work with some very kind and supportive individuals.

I started my career in 2018 and have resigned three times since then. Each instance has been a bittersweet and difficult phase to navigate. While the reasons for each change have varied, the process has consistently been a significant challenge for me.

I am going to share the stories of my resignations, detailing what I was doing, why I decided to resign, and how each event unfolded.

# AlphaBOLD
Just like your first love, your first company always holds a special place in your heart, and the same is true for me with AlphaBOLD. It was the company where I began my career, joining as a graduate engineer in a newly established AI and IoT department alongside just my engineering manager. AlphaBOLD, primarily a CRM consultancy, had launched the AI and IoT department to develop innovative products and tap into its existing enterprise customer base.

During my nearly three years at AlphaBOLD, I wore many hats. I worked on everything from building PoCs to MVPs related to ML and IoT, demoing solutions to potential customers, writing blogs and arranging webinars, gathering feedback, iterating on those solutions, and eventually acquiring customers. It was a rollercoaster ride where I learned to navigate challenges independently—designing solutions, pitching them, building a team, and ultimately delivering products to customers.

Everything was going well—I was doing meaningful work, loved my teammates, and had an inspiring engineering manager with whom I shared a great bond. However, I realized that I had grown too comfortable climbing the corporate ladder, settling for small, incremental progress in terms of remuneration and overall career growth. This comfort zone began to hold me back.

I also noticed that I wasn’t learning as much as some of my other university mates in other companies. AlphaBOLD remained primarily a Dynamics 365 consultancy, with the AI and IoT department now consisting of just four engineers. As a result, the quality of team collaboration, the project development processes, lack of automation, and overall learning as an engineer was limited. While this environment was fine when I was a fresh graduate transitioning from university, after a couple of years, it began to feel stagnant.

One challenge I began to notice, particularly when working in a consultancy company, was the dynamic of serving a client who isn’t truly the end customer of the product, leaving you with very little freedom to own or shape the product. This often led to a heavy focus on meeting client demands, sometimes at the expense of quality, learning, and the opportunity to do things the right way. This is especially true for consultancy companies in their early stages with a limited client base, where you end up working on whatever is available rather than what could be more engaging or rewarding. 

Over time, I concluded that all work eventually revolves around a product in some form. Even in consultancy, you often find yourself serving a product company indirectly. So, why not cut out the middleman and work directly for a product company? It offers the chance to own parts of the product, take on meaningful responsibilities, and be closer to the end customers, which ultimately feels far more fulfilling.

These factors combined influenced my decision to start exploring opportunities, both within Pakistan and abroad, with a particular focus on joining a product company. It was a time when developers were in high demand during covid, with plenty of opportunities available. I was also eager to aim higher by applying for positions abroad, as that had always been my ultimate goal—to work internationally, gain more exposure, and, of course, earn a better income.

Pakistan has a heavily services-oriented software economy, so there aren’t many good product companies to choose from. After applying to and interviewing with several companies, I finally secured an opportunity with a startup in Amsterdam. Resigning and transitioning out of my first job wasn’t a straightforward experience, especially since it was my first resignation and I had taken on significant responsibilities, including managing client projects. However, with the support of my manager and a smooth handover process, I was able to bid farewell to my first love and embark on an exciting new adventure.

# Fashion Cloud
Let me start by saying that Fashion Cloud has been the best company I have worked for so far in my career, especially in terms of culture, people, and the overall atmosphere. Joining Fashion Cloud marked a significant turning point in my career—not only because I left a stable and comfortable job but also because I moved across continents to a completely different country and culture for the first time in my life. The initial days were challenging, filled with paperwork, house hunting in Amsterdam, and adjusting to a new country. However, the support and warmth of the team made the transition smooth and even enjoyable.

Fashion Cloud is an e-commerce startup focused on the wholesale market for brands and retailers. I joined as a Fullstack Engineer on the Content Platform team, responsible for managing product features related to content sharing between brands and retailers, as well as providing third-party APIs for retailers to fetch content directly into their local systems. I had the privilege of working alongside some highly talented individuals I could look up to, and my engineering manager was a step ahead of even my previous one in terms of guidance and leadership.

I thoroughly enjoyed working within a new product development methodology like Shape Up, which involved six-week cycles for product features followed by a two-week cooldown period to explore anything that piqued your interest. Collaboration was a big part of the experience—I engaged in frequent pair programming, received valuable feedback on my pull requests, and felt like I was growing into a better engineer with each passing cycle.

However, the reality of moving to a new country and settling down began to hit me hard. Fashion Cloud was a great company, but as a startup, the salary they offered was just enough to barely make ends meet in a city as expensive as Amsterdam. While I had planned for this, the high cost of housing came as a big surprise, along with other hidden expenses. These challenges made me realize it was becoming increasingly difficult to sustain a comfortable life here while also supporting my family back home, which was an absolute priority for me.

During my year-end review with my manager, I realized that salary growth within the company was very slow. Even if I were to achieve the next engineering level through hard work, the net impact on my salary would be minimal, given the salary ranges defined for different roles in the company. At that point, I faced a difficult choice: I could continue working because I genuinely loved the culture, the product, and, most importantly, the people, but I didn’t have the financial flexibility to make that choice while compromising my ability to support my family. I knew I had to look for a new opportunity—ideally at a product company, but not an early-stage startup, and one that could offer a salary in a higher range.

I had a few recruiters reach out to me on LinkedIn, and after going through some interviews, I landed an opportunity that met the criteria I was looking for. I must admit, resigning from Fashion Cloud was by far the hardest resignation of my career. If I hadn’t had such pressing responsibilities to support my family, I would never have made that decision—at least not for a couple more years. The team, and especially my manager, were incredibly understanding and supportive throughout the entire process. He recognized my reasons and, despite the early departure, made the transition as smooth as possible. The memories and lessons I gained at Fashion Cloud will stay with me forever.

# DAZN
The experience of working at DAZN was truly remarkable because I was part of a big team of 12+ engineers, and every one of them was extremely talented—by far the most intelligent team I have worked with in my career. DAZN was an online sports streaming company; we used to call it the Netflix for sport. It had a presence in several countries, and each country had its own marketing teams that needed tools to design and publish their landing pages personalized for their respective regions. Our team was responsible for supporting the marketing teams in achieving their goals with an old legacy system while also designing and working on a completely new headless content management system.

I worked with other backend engineers and architects to design a comprehensive system for creating, designing, and publishing landing pages using a headless CMS.  I thoroughly enjoyed the collaborative problem-solving and the challenge of engineering a content management system tailored to our needs. This role also gave me hands-on experience with Terraform and AWS, and I had the chance to learn from some of the best engineers in the industry. The team, the atmosphere, the culture, the learning, and the overall vibe were fantastic, making the year fly by in what felt like no time at all.

Things were looking really good until there was a complete overhaul in upper management, with the most significant change being a new CTO. DAZN quickly shifted its priorities, and things started to go downhill from there. The company opened offices in India, and gradually, product features began moving there, followed by layoffs. Our project to build the content management system was halted, and I was reassigned to a different team to work on a BFF (Backend for Frontend) service that integrated several backend systems, including payments, pricing, content, and user management.

The overall vibe of the company began to change. Half of my teammates from the original team resigned and moved to other companies. It felt like a bus on fire, with everyone waiting for their chance to jump off. Being on a work visa, I couldn’t afford the risk of being laid off, so I started searching for a new opportunity and eventually found one that seemed like a great next step. Unlike my previous resignations, this one felt more forced, as everyone knew it was coming—it was just a matter of time. The resignation process was straightforward, as half of my team had already left, and the rest were also saying their goodbyes and moving on to new adventures.

# Conclusions
Looking back, I feel incredibly fortunate to have worked with some of the most talented and supportive people throughout my career, which has always made the decision to resign a difficult one. However, as I continue to grow in my professional journey, I’ve come to understand that just like hiring, resignations are simply part of the process. What truly matters is approaching each opportunity with good intentions, giving your best effort, creating meaningful memories, and cherishing the experience while it lasts.
